hey what's up I myself have written the
CFA t-test I am bound to give a
disclaimer at this point that nothing I
tell you in this video is classified
information nothing I tell you is based
on secret information from within the
test its contents or the writing process
when I both tell you is advice based on
an analysis of the materials that the
Canadian government makes available
publicly so that you can prepare
yourself for the test there is already
advice on the internet including the
advice provided by the Armed Forces
themselves much of that advice is
out-of-date so if your reading material
on the internet from 2003 what I'm going
to tell you in this video is better uh
in terms of studying not everybody
studies for the test you can go in and
write the test with no studying with no
preparation and do a okay many people do
you'll see many comments to that effect
in the internet however again this is
not classified information the people
who designed this test presumed that
most of the applicants would be recent
high school graduates that they would
have a very clear memory of for example
algebra that they learned in high school
if you're a grown adult with diverse
work experience you may have been in the
workforce for 10 years and you never
used algebra once in those 10 years
those are the people by and large who
want to sit down and study to prepare
for this test one of the problems is the
difference between the design and
function of the test and the study
materials you will likely find available
the single greatest hint about the
nature of the test and again the Armed
Forces they do provide you with a sample
test that's not classified so they give
you examples of exactly what the
questions look like except that it's out
of date in that it was based on a paper
test now all the testing is computerized
I don't think anywhere in the world they
still use slips of paper if you write
the answers on but with that aside
they're providing you with good advice
they're providing you with exactly what
you need to know if you know how to
now among other things they tell you
more or less in these words that each
question should be done in less than one
minute so I think they tell you you're
expected to do 30 problems in 30 minutes
some about that I finished every section
of the test with plenty of time to spare
doesn't mean you will but if you for
example get a normal high school
textbook it's not going to give you
problems of that kind okay a high school
textbook will probably give you in-depth
thought-provoking exercises that take
five minutes to solve ten minutes to
solve whether we're talking about math
or language or the sort of logic puzzle
aspect of this test right so this has
been designed so that anyone can sit
down analyze the problem find the
solution in less than one minute so
that's very different from prep
materials made for a high school student
or a college student preparing to write
exams what have you right part of the
trick is and again you can see this from
the publicly available sources very
often they're giving you answers to
choose from out of the four answers
where you can identify the right answer
simply through process of elimination if
you understand the question fully okay
so that's why a question that where if
you sold it in full mathematically you
might take five minutes if you can look
at it understand it and then choose the
right answer from the four options takes
only a few seconds okay the other thing
you need to make an effort to do when
you speak to the recruiting office
before you write this test or on the
same day as the test or after you need
to motivate the people in that office to
actually sit down to their computers and
tell you the hard data about the hiring
process and the number of positions for
the jobs you've applied for within the
military okay
ideally you would know that before you
ever wrote this test I think the vast
majority of people only
find it out afterwards or they never
find it out at all
okay so in my case I discovered that
really there was absolutely no
possibility of my joining the military
because there were only four positions
available for another it was five for
another was six an incredibly small
number of positions available and in
reality the selection of the people for
those positions has nothing to do with
my credentials has nothing to do with
the knowledge and ability the assets I
can bring to that job now why is that
it's because you know the military is a
bureaucracy nobody is making the
decision the same way that a normal
small business would sit down and look
at your whole resume think about what
kind of person you are whether I should
get a job no and this is also relevant
to the position people get into there
are people who try to write this test
and fail and then they have to wait for
some period of time before they can
write it again in reality if you are a
long-term careerist going into the armed
forces this test you should not look at
it as your gateway to military service
in reality as people have probably
already told you at the recruiting
office the first thing you should do if
that's the kind of guy you are is sign
up for one of the part-time jobs in the
military not necessarily the reserves
there are different part-time careers
that have basically no barrier to entry
once you've entered those the standard
supplies to you are completely different
because basically the army already has a
way to evaluate your competence there's
certainly no point in thinking of this
like a test where the higher the score
you get the better a chance you get to
achieve a given position within the army
in reality it would be your experience
doing other jobs whether that's first
working in the reserves doing a
part-time job in the signal's Corps or
serving in the infantry for a few years
although it's not really your dream to
be in the infantry some other position
you have in mind
that kind of service first both opens
the doors to the jobs you want to apply
for
and also it allows you to apply again
and again year after year while having
steady employment with the military of
some kind by contrast it would be
completely absurd if you're a civilian
living outside the military to write
this test study math write the test
again and repeat year after year be a
lot of paperwork - it's a lot of
bureaucracy the design of the test is
well calibrated to exclude certain
people at very low levels of competence
that may sound mean-spirited but that's
the reality of the test this test would
never establish the difference between
someone who can write an essay that gets
an A+ and an essay that gets a c-minus
this does not separate a genius from a
person of average intelligence the only
thing this test really does is establish
do you have the level of competence
where I could trust you to be standing
behind me with a machine gun which is
pretty fundamental so in looking at the
publicly available tests it may seem
strange to you there are all these
things that really just sort of exclude
people with severe dyslexia the spatial
reasoning the logic even the reading and
math elements looking at the practice
test if you imagine the kind of person
who would really struggle who would
really find this difficult somebody with
severe dyslexia I think would find this
test incredibly difficult but in terms
of minimum competence not maximum
ability as a creative writer or thinker
artist or anything else that is what
they've decided is crucial you know
picking up a box and turning it inside
out and backwards and remembering which
way is up I assume they think that
relates to whether or not you can handle
an ammunition cartridge and be reliable
in the job in different ways now
unfortunately the army promotes this
test as if it's not a test of minimum
competence as if it is used to rank
upper levels of ability that's the way
they talk it up even after you've
written the test they kind of sell you
this line as if people get higher scores
are
be recruited first and considered first
and so on and that is just ridiculous so
for any particular job the contents of
this test and again you know none of
this is classified if you've seen the
practice test there is absolutely
nothing on that test
that says whether or not you would be
good as a naval officer there is nothing
in the test that says whether or not you
would be good as a pilot there is
nothing in the test that establishes
your talents reliability or intelligence
in any way it is really just calibrated
to measure whether or not you have
minimum competence in language logic
arithmetic etc so that's my fundamental
advice probably the majority of people
watching this video are concerned about
the math you need to think about the
math not in terms of solving the problem
but in terms of a logical approach to
the multiple choice questions and to
being familiar enough with the
underlying mathematical concepts that
you can rapidly understand the problem
and select the best answer it's not
really about doing long division or
complex reasoning on a piece of paper
although again to some extent they
promote the test you as if that really
is what it's about